[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> I've worked so hard
to be strong and healthy.
I can't believe
this happened to me.
>> I have fibromyalgia, and
I've had it for 15 years now--
diagnosed for 15 years.
>> I have been suffering
from insomnia since July.
And that's, to me,
almost worse than--
I'm finding it almost worse
than the chemotherapy.
Because I thought
with the chemotherapy
I'd have an end date,
but the insomnia
has just made it almost
worse than the chemo for me.
>> If a client comes to me and
says, on a scale of 1 to 10,
my life is a 3, my next
question is, why so high?
And they say, what do you mean?
And I say, well, why
isn't it a 2 or a 1?
And they go, well, yeah,
I guess it's not a 1.
Well, my son's
really a great kid,
and I'm having a
good time with him.
And my mother's been supporting
me through the divorce,
and he gets good grades.
So what would it take to
move it to a 4 for you?
>> I've tried lots of things.
But each time I
had surgery done,
it seemed like, oh, you
got a 40%, 60% chance.
You know, a 60% chance
of being better.
I was always in
the 40%, you know?
>> Oh god, emotion.
The pain of her loss.
I just-- it's very hard.
I lost a woman that
I love so much.
I lost a very beautiful woman.
The accident took place about
five minutes from the bridge,
and that's where
Raquel's life ended.
She was dealing with
the pain every day.
It doesn't stop.
On and on, it doesn't turn off.
>> I'm trying to find
something positive in each day.
Because there's just how much
of that fear-driven unknown,
what lies ahead.
>> We're seeing that there
are some direct influences
on the body's physical health
that's directly related
to the link between
our emotional body,
our energetic body, our physical
body, our spiritual body.
You know, just the holistic
aspects of who we are.
>> Joy doesn't cause block.
It's anger, guilt, anxiety, and
depression that cause blocks.
>> If someone can be
traumatized in 30 seconds,
why can't they be healed in
a day, an hour, a minute?
>> We're just beginning to
take a look at who we are.
>> If I can stand up
in front of a room,
and especially like talk to a
group of people and not feel
nervous, number one, the
message is going to come through
better.
I'm going to be
way more effective.
I'll be able to communicate
my message better, I mean.
But it just brings
a whole new element
into what I'm capable of doing.
>> Each of us has the
potential to be extraordinary,
to be brilliant, to do
anything we want to do.
>> We have to start from that
belief and change these beliefs
of who we are.
We are a profoundly
powerful people.
>> People drive by and
shout, hang in there,
sweetheart I got L4, you know,
they'd shout out their spinal
injuries.
It really hurts.
It feels heavy.
I feel like I've got a
50-pound backpack on,
or that my hardware's
coming out.
Like I almost want
to say to people,
is that hanging out back there?
I don't think it's
real positive for me
to think accident, accident,
accident all the time.
It happened and I
can't change that.
I wish it hadn't
happened, but it did.
I would rather focus on how
I'm able to get stronger.
>> I suffered from a health
challenge for quite some time.
I feel like a 500-pound anvil
in my head weighing it down.
It feels like my whole
head's going to explode.
It feels like there's a
fire inside of my head.
>> I'm not able just through
diet and a little bit
of exercise to make
any difference.
>> Every day I'm
dealing with the past.
So how am I supposed
to look at the future?
>> I love my life.
I love where I live.
I love everything that I do.
But if I quit smoking,
within three or four days,
I don't like anything I do.
It's like my buddy.
It's like my pal.
it's like a friend
that's killing me.
>> Because we've been so
programmed to devalue ourselves
and disempower ourselves that
we look at ourselves as victims
and frail biological entities,
ripe for bacteria to eat us up
and all these other things.
It's like, this
is totally untrue.
>> When there's
pain in the body,
that's a signal that something
is not in harmony with the laws
of the universe,
with God's laws.
I see the law as
God's modus operandi.
And when there's
discomfort in the body,
we're violating the law.
It's telling us we're
doing something wrong.
I don't care whether it's
thought or a movement
or what it is.
And we've got to
shift the energy.
And as we shift the energy,
the pain will leave.
>> Every person I meet,
it's like waiting to unwrap
a package-- wow,
who's in there--
and watch them come
alive, as they realign
with who they really are.
And you watch their eyes
light up and they get excited.
>> All I know is that there is
a technique that's going to help
me get better.
I was looking at it on
the net and it's something
about tapping, tapping.
I saw people doing this.
I don't know what else--
I was looking at people
doing this and this.
I was like-- and this--
and I was, was it that?
>> If everything
else fails, try this.
Oh.
My back is a big problem for me.
>> I think it's exciting
that I'm going to have this
opportunity.
It's really unique.
>> When everything
is said and done,
I want to look back and be able
to know that I tried absolutely
everything and did
everything I could.
>> I don't know what to expect.
I'm very excited about going.
>> What I often say
is, OK, you know what?
I have this little
technique that I think
might really be helpful here.
Now, it might seem
a little strange,
but if you're willing to
play along and work with me,
let's just give it a try
and see what happens.
>> It is a tool that allows
you to release what's blocking
the powers of healing.
>> If there's an
emotional trauma,
something happens
something I watch on CNN,
something that happens
to a friend of mine,
something that happens to
me, there is an energetic
disruption that occurs.
And what we do is we bring
some soothing to that.
>> You bring a problem to
mind, a trauma, for example,
and you tap on your
body like this.
>> And we do that while tapping
into a particular emotional
state, a feeling in the body.
And by doing that,
we're soothing it.
>> When I first learned that
he was talking about tapping
on different points on your
body, I think I was skeptical.
But I was also desperate.
>> If I can start to open up and
release some of these feelings
that I've had in the past and
clear away some experiences
that are no longer relevant.
>> There's no way
I can't change.
I'm just going to get better.
I have to.
There's no possible way.
>> God, I just have so much
that I need to work on to kind
of save my life.
>> I think it was
Thomas Edison who said,
if we did everything we could,
that we're capable of, we would
literally astound ourselves.
>> The problem is we've
been trained out of that
by our conditioning, by
schools, by the television.
>> So I think we've got to take
a look at who we are and what
we've got and how we function.
And then begin to
apply this information
in a practical manner to
improve the quality of our life.
Because life is
meant to be enjoyed.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> In four days, where we're
going to be in a room with--
there's 10 of us,
including myself.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
I come and I go.
I ebb and I flow
wherever life takes me.
Because I don't really
know if I'm awake
in a dream, if it's
quite what it seems,
or whether I'll see
you in the next scene.
>> If you could
live your life over,
what would you wish
hadn't happened?
What would you remove?
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> What have you been
thinking on the way over?
>> Oh man, what happened,
I been thinking.
You know, I'm just--
trying to get my life
back where it once was.
It'll never be the same
way, but I'm just--
find a way out of this pain.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
All paths lead to home.
>> We're going to be with people
who are going to be helping us
work through whatever
the issues are.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Clear a space in you soul.
Prepare to let go.
Been staring at illusions
now for far too long.
>> It feels like it's time.
I mean, I've been going
through this craziness
for years, seven plus years.
So I'm really excited for
the outcome, to find my life,
find good health.
>> I'm Dennis.
>> All right,
you're our roommate?
>> Yeah, I guess so.
>> Good man.
>> I'm Sam.
>> Sam, nice to meet you.
>> This is what you're here for.
And it's time to get rid of what
I call slow incremental growth
and just make a quantum leap
into the full expression
of the brilliance
of who you are.
And everybody has that capacity.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
I come and I go.
I ebb and I flow
wherever life takes me
because I don't really know.
>> There's going to be three
sessions going on at most
times.
One will be up here, and it'll
be a practitioner and someone
working, and then a
couple of people watching.
There'll be another one in
a room that's being filmed.
And there's a third one
that's not being filmed.
In terms of what
we're doing, every day
imagine downloading
100 units of power
or $100 that come into your
energetic bank account.
And you have something happened
when you're 10 years old,
and it upsets you and you
have anger towards it.
And you take $2 and
you pay that there.
But the problem is that you
don't just pay that there once.
You pay it every day.
All right?
So $2, we can do.
$90 gets through day.
But what happens is now
you have age 15, $3 here.
Two days ago, $1
here, and you end up
either bankrupt or in debt.
And what I like to visualize
is bringing that power back.
So it's going to be, I'd like
my $2 back from that anger.
We're done with
that transaction,
and now we've got
the back of myself.
>> Where is your energy going?
It's going where you focus.
So if you're focused on the
fight that you had last week,
or you're focused on the meeting
with your boss next week,
that's where your energy is
draining out of your body.
>> When we get scared or
when we have a trauma,
small trauma or a large trauma,
often there are blocks that get
created in the pathways
of that energy system.
>> It's just the energy slows
down and feels heavy and it
contradicts our core true self
and the natural frequency we
were meant to be at, which
are those higher levels.
>> Energy is supposed to flow
through us as a wave form.
You know, it just comes in.
The word "emotion,"
energy in motion.
And so we say we're
emotionally moved by something.
So when I allow myself to
be moved and feel what it is
and let it pass through me,
then there's no blockages.
>> As a massage therapist,
I remember touching
a woman's hip, and she vividly
remembering almost running off
a cliff.
Now this memory had
been stored in her hip
since she was 18,
about 20 years.
And she had blocked
it, and yet she
had had constant hip problems.
That hip, that whole
side of her body in fact,
she'd always viewed as the
weak side, the side that wasn't
working as well as the other.
Now, when this memory was
released, the energy of it
was released from that side
of her body, her body balanced
out.
>> There is this circuitry
in the body through which
electricity and energy travels
and connects all our organs.
>> Now, it's similar to
when you walk into a house.
We've got electrical
switches now
that are activated by
clapping your hands,
or you can flip a switch.
And when we do that
[MIMICS ELECTRICAL WAVES]
all the lights go on.
But we don't think
anything of that.
We expect that to happen.
There's an electrical
system in the house.
That's the way the
house is wired.
It's an electrical
system in the body
that's more intricate
than anything in a house.
The electrical
system in the body
would make the electrical
system in a supercomputer
look like an absolute toy.
And we really don't
understand much about it.
>> This becomes relevant.
It says, OK, here's the
physical particles of my body.
Why are they in a healthy
state or why could they
be in a sick state?
That's the physical expression.
And the answer is,
well, to understand
that, don't look at the body.
You have to understand the
invisible forces in the field.
>> I tell people that it's
like gridlock in New York City.
You can't get down Fifth Avenue,
you can't get up 6th Avenue,
you can't get across
23rd Street if you've
got blockages in these
circuits and in these pathways.
So we have to clean out the
congestion and the traffic
in order for everything
to be moving cleanly.
>> What happens when I tap
at some point on my body,
especially one of those
points of low resistance,
is that a very small electrical
charge travels through
my connective tissue and
my muscles to other points
my body.
>> We use these points in a very
methodical, intentional way.
So the Chinese have
been using them how?
Well, they apply
pressure, acupressure.
They apply needles, acupuncture,
along these different points.
>> So any physical pressure
creates an electrical current.
And I think that's what we're
doing is we are exciting
the electrical system.
And the nervous system,
of course, is electrical.
So tapping just initiates
an electrical current.
>> So let's go through the
points real quickly so that you
know what points
we're talking about.
We start with a
karate chop point.
OK, it's along the
side of the hand.
And use your fingertips and just
tap on the side of your hand
like that.
We will start here and do a
lot of tapping here, while we
make certain statements.
I'm going to talk
about that in a minute.
During the dark
moments of your day,
what might you say about
your immune system?
>> It's failing me.
So what we would say is, even
though my immune system is
failing me right now, I deeply
and completely accept myself.
Even-- and we state
that three times.
Now, you would then start
tapping on these other points.
And we use what's called
a reminder phrase.
My immune system and all
the ways that it fails me--
I'm just coming up
with something, right?
My immune system and all
the ways that it fails me.
Now, when you're
tapping, if you were
to imagine drumming on a
table and making a noise,
that's about how
much pressure you
want to use so
that you're really
connecting with the bone
underneath the tissue.
And you don't have to--
some people really
tap hard, thinking
that's going to do
a big difference.
It doesn't make that
much difference.
You know, really
intense tapping, right?
That's not necessary.
Some people tap in a circle.
Some people pat
their head, right?
You just gently tap
the top of the head.
Now, it's just about
the center of your head.
So the eyebrow point is at
the beginning of your eyebrow.
Right.
And it's on both sides.
So sometimes you can tap
both hands, one hand.
You can crossover.
It doesn't really matter.
Sometimes I feel like I want
a little more stimulation,
and I'll use both hands.
So the next point is
along the side of the eye.
Now, it's not so close it makes
you blink and not so far back
that you feel like
you're on your temple.
It's really on the
bone right here, OK?
Everybody got that?
Under the eye point,
it's a little sensitive,
so you don't want to
bang on it real hard,
but it's right directly
below the pupil
and just tap gently there.
Under the nose.
Now, I curl my lip down a little
bit when I tap under the nose
because I want to be able
to make it a little firmer.
It's not necessary.
You all right?
>> Tickles.
>> It tickles.
OK, so try a little
firmer, a little firmer.
OK.
Chin.
It's not actually
doing the chin.
They call it the chin point.
It's in the crease here, OK?
And just tap there.
Now, the collar bone
point, the collar bone
itself, you have it
on both sides, right?
It's where the whole shoulder
attaches to your body.
So find that bone on
both sides and then come
down about an inch into the
soft tissue right there.
These are the under
the arm points.
Now, the under arm points
is not way up in the armpit.
It's about mid-bra line for
women, about a hand width.
If you start feeling very
emotional about anything that
comes up, just start tapping.
And then you're going
to notice every once
in a while you can stop
and take a look at where
your intensity is on that,
and notice that it will shift.
>> If on a scale of 0 to 10,
0 being no feeling whatsoever
and 10 being the highest
level of distress,
where would you put
your level of distress?
So it's just a way of
telling whether or not
a change has occurred.
We bring the issue to
mind, we give it a number.
You go ahead and do the
tapping, and then you
check the number again.
That guides you to
know is it working
or is there
something in the way?
>> And what we want to
do is scale the intensity
or the charge you
have on this issue.
So let's say someone hurt
you very badly and you're mad
at an ex-spouse.
When you think of
him or her, how much?
0 to 10, 10 is the highest.
And the reason you want
that is because you
want to measure after doing
the tapping if it's gone down.
You want to have
a pre-measurement
and a post-measurement.
Otherwise, it's very hard.
People say, oh, that
doesn't bother me anymore,
and they're not really
paying attention
to how much better they feel.
>> And we may ask you
things like, well,
what does that
feeling remind you of?
Some of them are obvious.
If you were in a car
accident, clearly
that's something that
was a big trauma.
But some of the things you'll
be like, oh, this can't be it.
Those are magical words for us.
This doesn't make any sense--
magical words for us.
This couldn't be it.
Because it's a doorway into
the body's energy system,
into the feeling of it.
>> A lot of people get
stuck just getting started.
So what I suggest that they do
is pick a pain in your body,
pick someplace that
you have tension.
>> You'll be working primarily
with Jodi, but each of you,
by tapping and
stimulating your system,
you'll notice that the things
that come up for her may not
always be applicable to you.
But you'll be surprised at how
much of the human experience
we all have in common.
>> With fibromyalgia, your
muscles are always tense.
You never really fully relax.
So that would be nice.
It's an autoimmune illness
because it's literally
you're attacking yourself.
So that's what I do.
It can get really bad.
But the most difficulties I
have are generally in my wrists,
and that's probably because I
type a lot, and in my knees.
And I used to walk.
I used to walk a
whole lot every day.
I would go for about an
hour walk, and I loved it.
But I just can't do it anymore.
So it's frustrating
to me because I really
like to be outside
and I love to walk.
So I don't like that.
I want to get back to where
I can go outside again
and walk around.
>> For each of you, find
some part of your body
that's feeling some
physical discomfort.
You got it?
Write it down, if you would.
And then just ask
yourself, if there
was an emotion in this part
of my body, what might it be?
>> There's an emotional
connection in about 85% of all
physical illnesses.
So I think that's
pre-- people know that.
What they don't fully understand
is that the solution for that
isn't necessarily a drug.
>> If you were to get
really angry at your knee--
do you ever get
angry at your knees?
>> Mm-hmm.
>> OK.
So what do you say to them?
>> What do I say?
>> Yeah.
>> I say, how dare
you betray me.
>> Oh.
Great job.
See?
See how we're using just
whatever words are coming up?
Even though my knees
have betrayed me--
>> Even though my knees
>> I accept myself.
>> Sometimes people have a
conflict with saying they
accept their behavior.
They say, I don't want
to say I accept myself.
Accepting yourself does
not make you get stuck.
>> I find this one statement
alone to be one of the most
powerful in cleansing
and clearing.
And a lot of it
has to do with just
being willing to love
yourself no matter
what's going on in this moment.
>> I remember working
with a colleague of mine,
a mother of three small girls.
We were traveling
together, and we
were having dinner one night.
And she was sharing with me
that she smoked cigarettes
and that she was
really embarrassed
that she smoked cigarettes.
And she also really
felt horrible
being a mother of three small
girls and smoking cigarettes.
And so I told her
that if she wanted
I would teach her the
technique to help her possibly
quit smoking.
I'd never used it
for smoking before,
but I figured, what the heck,
I use it for everything.
And I started to treat her.
And just using the
setup phrase, I
said to her, I you to start
with even though I smoke,
I deeply and profoundly
accept myself.
Even though I'm a
mom and I smoke,
I deeply and profoundly
accept myself.
Even though I'm
smoking and it sets
a bad example for my children,
I deeply and profoundly accept
myself.
And she burst into tears.
And I could see really
clearly it was almost
like I could see her block.
I knew that the self-loathing
she felt about smoking, the way
that she beat herself
up about smoking
was the actual thing
that locked it in place.
>> Even though I'm not
going to accept my knees--
>> --they have betrayed me.
>> Ah.
>> I accept myself--
>> --and all of my attitudes--
>> --even though I'm perfectly
right to feel this way.
>> Even though I don't
feel I can do this,
you acknowledge that.
>> What's happening
here, first of all,
I focused on the problem.
And I think just knowing
what the problem is,
admitting it, getting the
secret out, getting it out
of myself is a very
therapeutic thing to do.
Actually, it was Freud--
I'll have to paraphrase him--
who said the way to healing
is to have no secrets.
>> Even though he was gross--
>> --and I'm really angry--
>> --how could he do this to me?
>> Even though--
>> --mom didn't want me--
>> --she didn't seem
to want any of us--
>> --and she would
even verbalize this--
>> --she would even
verbalize this.
>> Even though--
>> --I invited myself--
>> So you state it in present
tense and then in as much
specific detail as possible
with as much emotion and passion
and enthusiasm and
vivid mental imagery,
with as many other
sensory inputs as you can,
sounds and sights and smells.
>> Acknowledging your own
emotional experience is
powerful.
Being able to say I am feeling
this way, this is the emotion.
>> I deeply and
completely accept myself.
And we state that three times.
>> Even though my immune
system is failing me right now,
I deeply and completely
accept myself.
>> I think the statement, "that
even though I have this fill
in the blank problem,
I deeply love, accept,
and forgive myself,"
while tapping right here,
is the single most
powerful thing you can do,
in my opinion, when
it comes to tapping.
>> I deeply and
completely accept myself.
>> I deeply and completely--
>> I deeply in completely--
>> --love and accept myself.
>> I accept myself.
>> I don't have to believe--
>> --because now I'm in control.
>> The reality is it's the
inability to accept yourself
with whatever faults you
perceive that you have
that's preventing you
from moving forward.
And I usually tell people,
you'll figure that out
in just a few minutes.
Because you'll feel
it in your body.
You'll feel it in the
body's energy system
as you begin to embrace it.
>> I want new knees.
>> I must have new knees.
>> My knees are no good.
>> They do keep me moving--
>> --but not well enough.
>> --but well enough--
>> --not good enough--
>> --not good enough.
>> My knees are not perfect.
>> Take a deep breath.
[INHALES DEEPLY]
>> OK, that's much better.
>> OK, why don't you
stand up for a moment.
>> OK.
>> Let me know how
they're feeling.
>> All the shame.
>> The shame.
>> This shame in my body.
>> All the shame in my body.
>> I don't forgive myself--
>> --and that I refuse
to forgive myself.
>> Under the nose,
it's unforgivable.
>> What is something that you
might feel when the pain shoots
up?
>> Anger.
>> Yeah, even though
I'm angry at my--
angry at me or angry at--
>> Frustrated.
>> We often are ignoring
those areas of our lives
and our characters that
need real attention.
And if we ignore
them long enough,
they begin as a little whisper
saying, hey, pay attention
to me.
I'm here for healing.
Eventually, they're
saying, hey, pay attention.
Your body needs
some work right now.
If we keep on ignoring
those small symptoms
and small issues, eventually our
body is screaming and saying,
(LOUDLY) hey, pay attention
to me right now, or else.
>> Who do you think might
be represented by that pain
in your back?
What conflict do you think
is being stored in your knee?
What do you think
is going on that
would make your shoulder act
up that way every time you
have the pain?
>> Maybe, maybe the problem is
the work, that it goes into it.
Because it's work.
It's mental.
It's chilling out.
It's focusing on
what the issues are.
It's analyzing your body.
I've trained myself
for the last years
not to think about
how I'm feeling.
And that's all we're doing
here is how you're feeling--
where, how, why.
And I'm just like, shut up,
I just want to go to bed--
[LAUGHTER]
--I don't want to
think about it.
>> There are many thoughts that
cause tremendous emotion in us.
But emotion is feeling
and it is physiological.
And that's why it has
great effects on our health
and our physical state.
>> We're getting
stuck, as people,
in patterns of thought and
emotion that keep us from
healing.
>> So I think that we've got
some work to do that we could
do on the accident and the
feelings around the accident.
>> And I can release the grief--
>> I can release the grief--
>> --from my body--
>> --and my mind.
>> And my mind.
>> I can release the grief.
>> To bring something into your
energy system and the energy
field, to tap on it, you simply
imagine it as vividly as you
can.
You want to create an
image of it in your mind.
You want to imagine
feeling it, being there.
It's not very complicated.
If it's something
that's worrying you,
you usually can imagine
it pretty quickly.
>> A monster.
I was a monster.
And when I came
back from Vietnam,
I was waiting for
that monster to erupt.
And I was afraid that
I couldn't control him.
Because I knew what I could do.
I knew what I was
capable of doing,
and that was killing people.
>> For many people, this
may be the first time that
you're honest about
what you're feeling.
But once you do, you'll
feel it in your body.
>> You know, their son, their
father, their brother, or--
>> Even though--
>> --there's no more
life in those bodies--
>> Even though my mother's
anger is in my back,
I deeply and completely
accept myself anyway.
Even though what
happened two years ago
is still showing up in my
knee, and it's a wonderful way
to clear that emotionally.
>> He did scare me.
>> He scared me--
>> --whether he
wanted to or not--
>> --he scared me.
>> He scared me--
>> --that I might not walk.
>> I've worked so hard--
>> I've worked very hard--
>> --to get what I have--
>> --and he took it away.
>> Your emotional system is
meant to be a guidance system
to guide you in your life path,
that when you're on the path,
things-- you feel good.
When you're veering off, that's
a feedback system to saying,
hmm, not such a good choice.
>> Whenever we have an
emotion, positive or negative,
it sends signals
chemically to our body.
So it releases this series
of reactions in our vascular
system, in our
respiratory system,
in our endocrine system.
So they're always affecting us.
>> If you're stressing
yourself with those thoughts,
then your body has no way of
telling if there's an actual
threat from out there,
an objective threat,
or whether this
image of a threat--
your boss or your wife or
your child or whatever memory
you have--
this thing that
you're generating
within your own head.
>> When you are stressed,
it puts out adrenaline,
puts up cortisol,
puts out blood sugar,
raises the need for insulin.
And so the whole body is
physiologically stressed.
>> If something flares up,
if you suddenly get, ooh,
that hip pain or that head pain,
we want that because that means
that emotional issue
is contributing to it.
So like, John, if you
go home and suddenly you
get the knee or the back,
you think, oh, whoa,
what's happened?
Well, what are you
thinking about?
>> OK.
>> What's the
topic of that hour?
What just happened?
Who just called?
So there's great information.
If suddenly, Dennis,
you're having a craving,
and you think, that's unusual,
well, what just happened?
Who'd you just run into?
>> So many times I
was just like, oh,
I wish someone would just come
and take some of this weight,
you know, to take some of this
burden off me and felt despair
because I felt like there
really wasn't anyone to come
and relieve some of it.
>> Once you address the
underlying emotional
contributions, then
physical changes occur.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> This is a soul
mate that I lost.
And I'm learning
to work with that.
It's still, like I said,
a long process there.
>> The unconscious, it's there
to protect us from any kind
of pain, and it gets in the way
because we can't seem to peel
all the layers off that
we want to peel off.
And what happens is that
we kind of get stuck.
>> I think grief is maybe
the hardest thing to put
into perspective for people.
We've done it with
accidents and trauma
and all sorts of other issues.
However, I think grief is
a bit more complicated.
>> I've worked with people who
had grief for family members
or close people that
they'd lost in accidents.
And, of course, that's
coupled with shock.
That's coupled with
the pain of thinking
of the person being hurt.
>> This was Raquel's 37th
birthday, if you can see that,
right?
She put 36.
She lied to me about her age.
And this was back in '04.
This was in the
Universal Studios
Islands of Adventure,
the Jurassic Park
section of the park.
This was in her old home
in Tennessee back in '05.
This was her at Chuck E. Cheese.
This is the last Christmas, '06.
Over here we have more pictures
of us at Great Adventures.
This is where we were
going the day she died.
>> I'd like you to run
the event in your mind.
And let me know if anything
kind of sticks on you.
Like, you kind of stop there
and feel some intensity.
>> July 31, of this
year, of course, 2007.
It was a beautiful sunny day.
It was very hot.
No, we were driving.
It was just fine.
The drive was just fine until
we crossed the George Washington
Bridge heading over
toward New Jersey.
And that's when the
idea, the accident,
took place, about five
minutes from the bridge.
We were cut off by a
truck that was pulling off
from a shoulder.
>> Just from the time that
you're riding the car till when
the truck pulls out
and everything else.
>> What you want to do is
break it down into pieces.
Because that's how
we learn, and that's
how it's recorded in our body.
So maybe someone will
say, I feel guilty.
About what?
I didn't put my blinker on.
>> What details do you remember?
And make it, in your
mind, like a movie,
and run that movie
in your mind and see,
as you run it in
your mind, see which
details make you just sort off
shiver and tighten up inside.
You'll know.
>> And we're driving down that
highway and everything's fine.
We cross the George Washington
Bridge into New Jersey.
We're doing a normal speed.
>> And what you're
talking about?
>> Us driving over to Six Flags
Great Adventures in my van.
Everything is well.
Everything seemed
well, you know?
We noticed a lot of trucks were
parked alongside the shoulder.
>> I've seen this
movie so many times.
>> It was a terrible
movie to begin with.
>> It's a terrible
>> And this is the last showing.
I need to let it go.
>> I need to let it go.
>> I have my reasons.
[EXHALES SHARPLY]
>> What came up for you there?
>> A memory of her face.
>> Every time we want to go to a
place better than where we are,
there are blocks inside
that have stopped us,
or we'd already be there.
And these blocks seem to come
from where I had an experience
that I didn't complete.
>> How much anxiety is
anyone else feeling?
>> Oh, yeah.
>> 10, OK.
You're a 9?
Is it OK to continue?
>> I'm not sure.
>> I noticed the truck was on
top of us as I was switching
lanes.
He was switching his lane.
>> It's a picture of you
noticing that vehicle,
all right?
And you're switching lanes.
Switching lanes.
Is there any regret
about switching lanes?
>> I wish I never did it.
>> OK.
How strong does that feel?
It's true, right?
You wish you'd--
>> Yes, I wish
I'd never done it.
>> Is there an emotional pain
around the wish that I never
did it?
>> I feel it in my heart.
I feel I just should have
just stayed in the middle lane
and just kept going, and then
switched at some other stage,
but--
>> I should have.
I should have.
Shoulda.
"Shoulda, woulda, coulda."
>> Should have, would
have, could have.
I feel like, God,
why didn't you take--
you take me?
She has six kids, for
the love of Christ.
Six kids.
I noticed that the
truck was on top of us
as I was switching lanes.
He was switching his lane.
>> And what came
out of your mouth?
>> Oh my God.
>> Did it come out that way?
>> No.
>> How strong of
an "oh my god,"--
(SCREAMING) Oh my God!
[EXHALES]
>> Keep tapping.
What are you feeling?
Anger?
[SOBBING]
Oh my God.
It's oh my God.
>> I have people tell me,
clients of mine will say,
I don't want to not
miss that person.
I really, really-- this
was somebody so important.
I don't want to get over that.
I don't want to--
I want to honor them.
And in fact, you will
not get over that caring
and the importance
of the person at all.
It doesn't erase the
memory of the person.
>> When that happens, when those
memories or those thoughts,
the pieces of wisdom or
insight that occur to us while
we're tapping, when they rise to
the surface and we become aware
of them, it opens
the door for healing.
It opens the door for self-love.
And that's the
key to everything.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> It calms you so you can
think more clearly about
your problem.
It's almost like if
there's a forest.
You can't see the
forest through the trees
because there's just so many
issues around something.
>> I got a sense of excitement
to uncover these things
and the sense of
just overwhelmed--
I'm overwhelmed because
there's so many issues,
and it's so hard
for me to recall
different things that happened
when I was 10 or 5 or--
I got to connect
here, and it's hard.
>> Psychologists tell us that
70% or more of our thoughts,
as conventional people,
are negative and limit
our abilities and
take away our powers,
which essentially they do.
>> Most of these issues, not
all of them, but most of them.
And actually, almost
every issue has a root
somewhere in early childhood.
>> So if something happens with
a child that the child feels
terror, that's what fear is,
or neglected and abandoned,
it sets a pattern.
>> There's so many little events
that happen to kids that we
as adults, hopefully, wouldn't
think of, but that are
traumatic for a child.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Every kid has the potential
to do remarkable things,
to be an Edison, to be a
Martin Luther King, Jr.,
to be a Wright brother,
to do all these things
in all areas of life.
But they're shut down from all
of these little experiences
that happened where they're
told they weren't good enough,
or they just decided.
How many great ideas are lost?
How many advancements
in humanity
are lost because of
things like that?
>> You know, I wonder, why do
I always have to be perfect?
Why would I do that to myself?
It's a punishment, obviously.
>> Are you punishing yourself
or protecting yourself?
Perfectionism is usually
about protection,
but it doesn't have to be.
>> I went right back to being a
kid again when you went through
that whole process.
And then this has got to be
going back to when I'm a child.
>> OK.
>> This has to be when that
starts, is when I was so young.
>> Tell us the incident.
OK, so she says
it hasn't changed.
What's going on is
that she went back--
>> (WHISPERING) I
don't want to tell.
>> --to a specific--
only what you want and
feel comfortable talking
about-- but an incident where
you learned [GASPS] I've
got to be perfect or else
look what could happen.
There's some important
incidents that's driving this.
And there could be 50
incidents, but there's one
that you could think of and
bring up and talk about.
Only what you feel
comfortable talking
about that were drivers.
>> It has to do with trying
to be seen by my father
and remembering he'd go
away for weeks at a time--
because he was a salesman.
And then when he
came home, we'd all
get excited and run out there
because we wanted to see him.
And he would just ignore me,
but he would go get my sister
and pick her up.
And I would sit there
going, why not me?
>> OK.
How intense.
>> That's intense.
>> OK.
What is it?
Hurt?
Sadness?
>> Hurt.
>> Hurt, OK.
>> Kids are really, really,
really, really open.
When they're really young,
they don't know anything
but what you teach them.
>> Our first six years,
we're not actually engaging
in consciousness.
We're just downloading
experiences.
Well, these experiences
then, we play them back
as our life characters
and our life behaviors.
Yeah, but you downloaded
them from other people.
So that you download
your parents' behaviors,
and they become your behaviors.
>> Jackie, what's going on, just
as we're doing all that tapping
about family stuff?
>> Yeah.
A lot of family stuff
coming up, and it kind of
goes to I have to be perfect
or they'll get mad at me
because, I mean, it's
probably so many times.
I don't remember, but one
particular time-- because there
was six girls and three boys.
I was the second youngest.
And my dad used to always
beat the older boys.
>> OK.
Tap on your collar
bone right now.
OK.
[SOBBING]
>> Which I obviously
must have witnessed.
>> Yes, mm-hmm.
And how do you feel when
you're telling us that?
Just say one more sentence
about it or a little bit more
about it.
Or just go to the eyebrow.
He beat my brothers.
>> He beat my brothers.
>> The side of the eye.
And I couldn't stop him.
Under the eye.
He beat my brothers.
>> He beat my brothers.
>> Under the nose.
And obviously, I witnessed it.
>> And obviously I witnessed it.
>> He beat my brothers.
>> No wonder I don't
want anyone mad at me.
>> I certainly don't
want my father mad at me.
want him mad at me.
>> If something comes up that
you don't want to say out loud,
or you don't want to own, or
you don't want to say you accept
about yourself, that's the very
thing you want to tap about.
Because that's-- the good news
is that's leading you right
to why you're stuck.
It's shining a light
on the place that
needs your love
and your compassion
and your self-acceptance
more than anything else.
And the quicker you can get
there and give yourself that,
the quicker you're going
to dissolve that block
and get on with your life.
>> The subconscious has programs
in it that we primarily got
from other people
in our development.
And the significance
about that is
that if we are operating
from the subconscious mind
or not seeing it,
then we're also
not seeing that we're
playing programs
that may not be in any
way supporting who we are
and what we want.
>> Most of us have core
issues around powerlessness
and worthlessness.
That's it.
Two things.
I'm powerless and I'm worthless.
We pick that up at some
level, to some degree,
in our childhood.
>> No wonder I
try to be perfect.
>> Eyebrow.
He beat my brothers--
>> He beat my brothers--
>> --and I watched--
>> --and I heard--
>> --and I felt it.
>> He beat my brothers.
>> No wonder I've been
trying to be perfect.
>> I think if you're
perfect, you won't be beaten.
>> In the midst of all this,
I went to the bathroom.
For my whole life,
since I've been
taught, since I've
been potty trained,
I thought it was normal
to hold it forever.
In grade school, I had to raise
my hand to go to the bathroom.
And if the teacher didn't--
if the teacher was
involved with something
that was important to her or
him, whoever the teacher was,
they would just ignore my hand.
And I remember wetting myself in
like the third or fourth grade
because I just couldn't
hold it any longer,
but I didn't get
permission to go.
And that has stayed
with me since then.
>> I'll often say
to people, well--
as we're tapping
through a round--
you're living your life
based on the decision
of a kindergartner.
How often do you now go
down to the local school
and go to the kindergarten class
and ask kids for their advice
on your major life decisions?
Hey, what's your name?
Stevie.
Yeah, look, I'm thinking of
buying a couple of houses.
Here are the different
house I'm looking at.
What do you think?
They say, well,
that would be crazy.
It's like, well,
you're doing it though.
You're asking a kindergartner
for advice in everything
you do.
You know, should I ask
my boss for a raise?
No, no, no, don't do that.
The teacher will get mad.
OK.
>> We learn our behaviors
and learn about interpersonal
interaction from our parents
and how their relationship is,
how they treat our siblings,
whether we have siblings.
That's where we
learn everything,
is really what do people
say to each other?
How do they respond
after an argument?
What do they do when
there's tension?
And kids pick all that up.
They know when there's
tension in their room.
>> You know what
a razor strap is?
>> Hmm.
>> It's a piece of leather that
the old barber used to sharpen
their straight edge razors
and [MIMICS RAZOR SCRAPING]..
So when I wouldn't do something
my father wanted me to do,
he'd get the razor strap
out and just whip me.
And it seemed like every day.
And I don't know if it was every
day, but it was several times
a week.
>> Why am I carrying this?
>> Why am I carrying
this sadness?
>> Why can't I bring
it down to a zero?
>> Why can't I bring it
down-- ooh-- down to a zero?
>> What happened?
Wait, why did you say that?
>> Now I just understood
where I'm feeling so sad.
>> Why?
>> Because if this
hadn't happened,
maybe my relationship with my
father could be much better.
>> Hmm.
Stay tuned into that.
This relationship.
>> What's really important is
to be willing to work to get
to the root cause
of what's going on.
And that generally comes up as
a thought, a memory, an idea,
an image, or something
that's generated from within.
>> Get together with a group
of friends and brainstorm.
What are the things your parents
said to you growing up that you
think are still limiting you?
If you get five or six
people together and do that,
and people start
saying things like,
well, eat all the food on
your plate, the kids in China
are starving, and then
you go, and today,
if I go to a salad bar,
and I take a lot of food,
even if I'm full,
I keep eating it
because I don't want the
children in China to starve,
whatever.
So that brainstorming
technique, you
can come out with
a lot of things.
You know, children should
be seen and not heard.
You'll never amount to anything.
Your father was a drunk,
so you'll be a drunk, too.
No women in this family
have ever gone to college,
and what makes
you think you can?
And you've got to
hide your feelings
and don't air your
dirty laundry in public.
I mean, it's just a
ton of stuff we got.
>> To give you an amusing
anecdote about it is,
you know somebody and
you know their parent,
and you realize that this person
and their parent pretty much
have the same behavior.
And so you, in enthusiasm,
you burst on the scene,
you say, you know, Mary,
you're just like your mom.
As soon as you say that to
Mary, back away from Mary.
Why?
Because she's not going to take
this as welcoming news for her.
She's going to say like,
how can you say that?
To her, she's not
like her mom at all.
And the issue is interesting.
It's like the joke is, everybody
else can see that Mary's like
her mom, but Mary can't.
Why not?
And the answer is,
because when she's
playing the programs, which
she got from her mother, which
are in her subconscious,
she's playing them
because she's not
paying attention.
And so when they play,
she doesn't see them.
So she's surprised
when people say
that she behaves like her
mom, even though that's
what her life is all about.
>> When you're feeling
bad, look at what thoughts
you're thinking.
And then if they're
limiting beliefs
that have been habitual--
because a belief is just
a thought you think
over and over and over.
>> Well, I feel that
he power trips over me.
And I feel like he's always
blaming me for something
and making me feel inadequate.
>> I just can't possibly do it.
Other people can
plan their week.
I just can't seem
to plan my week.
Things always come
up, and I just
can't even get it on paper.
>> I don't feel like I
should have a happy family.
And that's about my
family because I--
>> Got that?
>> --destroyed all
these other families.
>> What I found is when you
state the limiting belief,
like I'm not good enough.
I'm afraid.
I don't know where money's
going to come from.
I don't know if my business
is going to succeed.
I mean, there's
all kind of beliefs
that are unique to the person.
When you state that, you're
not anchoring the belief.
You are releasing the belief.
>> When I said self-blame,
or I blame myself,
did that resonate with you?
>> I blame myself
for everything.
So, yes.
>> OK.
Say out loud, it's my fault.
>> It's my fault.
>> It's all my fault.
>> They wouldn't help me.
>> They blamed me
for the accident--
>> And I'm angry about it.
>> I'm very angry about it.
It's not fair.
>> Under the nose.
Haven't I suffered enough?
>> Haven't I suffered enough?
>> 99% of the time when people
name the issue accurately
and are allowed to finally
say, I'm resentful,
or I'm so profoundly
hurt, or the betrayal,
I thought the betrayal
was going to kill me,
when they say it out
loud, they might cry,
but they are
completely relieved.
>> Say out loud, I
chose a lousy partner.
>> I chose a lousy partner.
>> How true is that?
>> It's-- he's still
a lousy person.
[LAUGHTER]
>> I'm afraid to get better--
>> --because it's going
to threaten my brother.
>> How does that feel?
>> Yeah.
Yeah, I feel that--
very probable.
>> Very probable.
OK.
So there is a
possibility you could
be holding onto the symptoms
so that he doesn't get upset?
>> Or threatened.
>> Yeah.
>> The challenge with helping
somebody to get past a belief
like that is showing them,
first of all, that look,
it is just a belief.
Would you entertain the
idea of changing it?
>> We're always going
to have problems.
This is the nature of
the human experience.
What you do about them,
however, is up to you.
>> What are the obstacles?
What are the traumas?
What are the moments
in time where
you formed a belief about
something that keeps you stuck?
And really working
through those and working
through the different
levels as well.
>> Even I feel guilty--
>> --because I chose
such a lousy partner.
>> Even though my brother
tells me I'm not good enough--
>> --and I keep
trying to fight that--
>> --this is not true.
--it's not true.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> There is something
else going on.
I mean, there's an invisible
part of all of this.
It's such an experiential thing.
You can talk about it all day,
but until a person experiences
what it feels like, that
resistance to melt away,
I mean, it's all
just theoretical.
You have to walk
them through it.
>> I remember doing a seminar
for a Benedictine abbey down
in Florida.
And many of the monks there
were there out of guilt,
not out of a desire
to be closer to God.
One guy had taken an entire
troop up the Rhine River
during World War II.
Everyone was killed but
him, and he was the leader.
So he came back, went on
about a three-week drunk,
and then basically
joined the monastery.
And I said, so why did you join?
He said, because
I didn't believe
I deserved to have any
more pleasure in my life.
I did kind of abrogate that.
And so this sense
of unworthiness
is a big issue for people.
>> Say out loud.
Now, I'm just
testing him, right?
I don't deserve to
have a happy family.
>> I don't deserve to
have a happy marriage.
>> How true does
that feel, 0 to 10?
>> It's way down.
Way down.
>> Could you give it a number?
>> 2.
2.
From a 10 to a 2.
If your vibration is, I don't
deserve to have a happy family
and it's as high as a 10,
when it goes down to a 2,
your vibration is different.
Your behavior is different.
How you talk to people.
How you stand, your posture.
Everything will be different
if your vibration changes
that much.
>> There's a beautiful word
dealing with beliefs called
"praxis."
P-R-A-X-I-S. It's
an excellent word.
Praxis is the integration
of belief with behavior.
You'll often hear
people say, yeah,
I believe that I can do a
lot better than I'm doing.
But they don't do it.
Why?
They believe it intellectually,
but their paradigm
doesn't believe it.
They're saying, I believe
I could multiply my income.
But their paradigm is
saying, you just never
have enough money.
So you see, we have beliefs
on a conscious level,
and they're beliefs we normally
discuss in a social situation,
in conversation.
But if you watch
the person that's
saying that they
believe this, they
believe that, watch
their behavior.
Their behavior and their
results would indicate
they've never heard of it.
>> Positive thinking is a
creative thought that comes
from the conscious mind.
OK, so if I have a thought
for being healthy or being
in a good relationship, and
I'm doing positive thinking,
and at the same time I
have acquired programs
in my development that
said, you are not as healthy
as you think you
are, and you're not
that good a person to have
those kind of relationships.
Then look, I'm now pitting
my positive thoughts
against my programs
and they're opposite.
>> What you fight
against stronger.
It doesn't get weaker.
What you resist persists,
as the old saying goes.
So when you are fighting
against negatives,
you're strengthening them.
You're thinking of them.
>> You're saying all
this negative stuff,
but tacking on the points,
then the only thing I can think
of is you're releasing that
problem by addressing it.
Is that--
>> What I'd say-- and
that's come up a lot.
It's like, well, I'm
trying to be positive,
so I don't want to
speak the negative.
>> So I'm sure you've heard
of the technique of writing
an enormous check to yourself.
So let's say you write a check
out for a million dollars.
That's not enough for
law of attraction.
What I want you to do is look
at the check written out to you,
look at the amount and hold it.
How does it feel?
And if you have any anxiety
or any emotional blocks
to holding that check
that's written out
to you for a million
dollars, that's
going to get in your way.
>> I need to let go of whatever
it is, release, literally,
what I've been holding onto
and let it go so that I have
a capacity to receive that
which is wanting to come
into my life, that which
I preferred and desired
and tended and set goals
around and so forth.
>> You have to work hard
to have enough money.
>> I don't want to be poor.
I don't want to
be without money.
I went through the last
five years being very broke,
having to declare
bankruptcy in 2001.
>> Poor me.
And I'm poor.
I mean, financially.
I don't have what I really want.
>> If you want to know what
you believe about money,
just look at your money status.
What's happening
with your money?
>> People think they're
focused on something positive,
and they're not.
So they think they're focused
on, I want more money.
Why aren't I getting it?
They're actually quite
worried about scarcity
and not being able
to pay their bills.
>> The way to earn
money is out there.
The information is out there.
I mean, we're in an office
here surrounded by information.
There's no shortage of that.
The only thing that
interrupts that flow
is you and your beliefs.
And the tapping helps erase
the negative limiting beliefs.
>> Even though I went bankrupt--
>> --and I think
it's disgusting--
>> --I deeply and profoundly--
>> --accept myself anyway.
>> If I keep trying to
be safe all the time,
I won't take chances.
I won't take risks.
I don't push myself to
do what I know I can do
because it might not be safe.
>> Remember what
she told us earlier?
>> Yeah.
>> It might not be totally safe,
so then you protect yourself.
You live a very safe,
quiet, small life.
>> The more we work on
keeping ourselves balanced
energetically using
these kinds of tools,
the more attractive we become.
And I'm not talking
about physical beauty
necessarily, although I'm sure
that's part of it as well.
But I'm talking
about energetically,
as we start to put the
energy body into balance,
we naturally begin to
allow wonderful things
to come into our life.
We start attracting wonderful
things into our life.
>> That true repetition of
repeating them and writing them
and energizing them,
emotionalizing them,
we're going to find that
pretty soon the new belief,
that we only have on unconscious
level, will start to take root.
And the old one is going to
die for a lack of nourishment.
And what happens?
The joints loosen up.
The bank account grows.
We have healthy relationships,
healthy bank accounts,
healthy body.
Why?
Because now we're in tune.
We're in harmony.
We're congruent.
Most people are not congruent.
The beliefs they have
that they talk about,
they don't have on a
subconscious level.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Oh, he's moving.
[LAUGHS] I'm a little--
>> Did you get a
little jumpy, Steve?
>> I'm a little jumpy.
>> OK.
>> Cool.
>> Put your hand kind of under
him, and he'll wrap around you.
He's going to wrap.
He likes to be warm.
>> Oh, I'm not too
sure about that.
[LAUGHTER]
>> Me neither.
>> All of us, as human
beings, get scared.
We get anxious, especially
in this day and age
when many of us are so
overwhelmed and stressed out.
We have fears about things,
certain phobias about things.
Lots of people are afraid
to speak in public,
or they're afraid
to fly, or they
have phobias about snakes or
animals or something like that.
I mean, we all have something
that we tend to be afraid of
or to feel anxious about.
>> I just feel really
tense right now.
>> Where do you feel it?
>> All over.
>> All over?
>> And, Jackie, even though the
snake's going to wrap around
my arm--
>> The snake's going
to wrap around there--
--I'm surprisingly
calm about that.
--surprisingly calm about that.
>> No, I'm not.
[LAUGHTER]
>> I'm hovering about a 7.
>> Even though--
>> --I'm hovering at a 7--
>> --and I was always
told snakes were icky--
>> There are only two known
fears that are thought to be
inherent in everybody,
falling and loud noises.
Those are natural fears.
Other fears are
conditioned by our parents.
And, of course, our environment
in general, but particularly
by our parents.
>> It's the meaning we attach
to it that really creates
the distress or the discomfort.
>> See the tongue?
>> Yeah.
I'm starting to--
>> How you doing?
>> Yeah.
>> Did the tongue get you?
>> No, he's just moving.
Do you want to pick him up?
>> I do.
>> Huh?
>> No, I'm just kidding.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> I'd really like
to pass him to Jack.
[LAUGHTER]
>> Maybe she needs to tap
for a few more minutes.
[LAUGHTER]
>> And I choose to find myself--
>> I choose to find myself--
>> --surprisingly
calm and confident--
>> --and open--
>> --to a new experience.
>> I'm safe.
>> It's OK, buddy.
>> Say--
>> And we're just getting
used to each other.
You're really not that bad.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Here's the deal.
You are unconsciously focusing
on your fear all the time.
It's your subconscious that
needs to get reprogrammed,
in a sense.
And so by focusing on it
for a little bit of time,
we can get rid of it so it's
not unconsciously running you.
>> I'm actually incredibly
amazed that this snake is
in my hands right now.
And he's actually not that bad.
He's kind of cute.
>> I kept getting feedback
from my clients saying that it
worked on them,
over and over again.
So they'd come in week after
week and say, you know,
that strange tapping
thing we did last week?
I'm better.
>> I came here with two
major issues, I think.
My back pain, pain,
and PTSD from Vietnam.
And I've woken up two mornings
in a row now with no back pain,
and that hasn't
happened since 1974.
>> And it is really quite
astounding to see just in many
cases nearly instant
transformations in many other
health problems.
>> As the days went on, I found
not just my knees releasing
pain, but I just have completely
fully relaxed all over my whole
body.
I don't feel the muscle tension,
have not had any problems
with my knees since I've been
here, been going up and down
stairs daily, going
for walks, no problems.
I am sleeping through the night
much, much better than I was.
>> Does it really work?
>> What I saw right before my
eyes could not possibly have
happened.
>> I've never laughed
so much, cried so much.
>> This entire thing has
been a transformation.
It started out as a caterpillar,
went through the whole cocoon,
and I'm emerging the butterfly.
>> Rene.
It was amazing to see how
Rene from one accident--
I think even a lot
of his grief is not
even just from the accident.
It is, but a lot of it is
from past things in his life
as well that caused
him to have a harder
time with the accident.
>> He's come a long
way, hasn't he?
>> A long way.
>> Ain't that amazing?
>> Yeah.
>> I can't even imagine that he
came here and did that in that
short of a time.
I was like--
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> It feels good.
It feels real good.
Thank you, all.
>> You're welcome.
>> Thank you.
>> Yeah.
>> And I think this is one
of the greatest gifts from
the whole tapping movement
is that you end up at a place
of a natural movement
in your life.
>> Three months after I had
taken my first tapping class,
I noticed that my long-term
insomnia had gone away.
>> Sleeping.
I really struggled with that.
In the back of my mind, I came
knowing I live 45 minutes away.
I can always drive home and
sleep and drive back again.
So that was in my back
pocket the whole time.
And the first night I
actually fell asleep,
slept through the
night without waking up
and woke up feeling better than
I have in a very long time.
And it was very
surprising to me.
>> You know, I tend
to define "miracle"
as something that is
really, really good that we
can't explain.
And a lot of what we see
would fall into that category.
>> I don't think there
was one person here that
didn't surprise me, of
the things that happened
to everybody
>> I absolutely feel that
my relationship is going
to change.
And it's all good.
I don't feel this fear.
I think I've
overcome a huge fear.
Anything you
encounter that looks
like an obstacle on the other
side of that hill or mountain
is the greatest
opportunity of your life.
[APPLAUSE]
>> The proof is in the pudding.
I mean, if you calibrate that
your fear on a scale of 1 to 10
is 9, and then after doing
a sequence a few times,
it's like 1, and
then you say, OK,
so come on up to the
front of the room
and turn round and
face the audience.
And before, they would
have been shaking,
and now they're relaxed.
That's all the
explanation you need.
>> It's like where
does this come from?
It's just you're
tapping on somebody
else's, and it just, whoosh.
These things come up and it
is so relieving, refreshing,
to just let them go.
Because they're
there, they're buried.
You don't even
know they're there.
>> Everyone's issues I
can kind of resonate with.
I just wish I understood how
you can tap on someone else's
issues, and it can help you.
But I'm not going to
get hung up about that.
It works.
[LAUGHTER]
And that's good for me.
That's good enough for me.
>> I'm humbled every
day I go to work.
The results are humbling.
It's hard to describe the
help that people are getting.
Lifelong ailments gone.
It's absolutely amazing.
>> What's your physical
sensation of your back been
like?
I know when we
talked at your home,
you really felt the rods and the
screws in there all the time.
>> It was a constant
heavy presence.
And now it's not heavy.
I'll stop at the end of
the day and I'll think,
oh, I haven't
thought of my back,
except when we're in
a session, and they're
asking me to speak about it and
go there and think about it.
And it felt wonderful
immediately afterwards.
I mean, that was the benefit
of getting through that,
to have this awesome outcome.
The pain's not an issue.
The pain isn't requiring
99.5% of my time now.
And that's very exciting.
>> We need to learn that
these things are real,
and they're powerful
and they can heal.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
[APPLAUSE]
>> Now, that's what
I'm talking about!
[CHEERING, APPLAUSE]
>> Wow!
>> That's my kind of surprise.
And when I first saw the
cakes, my first response
was, oh, how beautiful they are,
how they were each decorated.
And I did not have the
feeling like, oh, wow,
can't wait to dive in.
It's a delight to
see them, but I
don't feel like,
oh wow, I'm going
to eat each and every one.
Because that was
the issue with me
if I had any emotion
at all, good or bad,
I felt like, oh, I
have to eat something.
They somehow got connected.
So I feel like we've
broken that connection.
So I can feel something
and then realize
I want to put
something in my mouth.
>> Many emotions are
quieted through food.
And the food is used so
quickly to stop the emotion,
you hardly know you
have the emotion.
You just grab for
the food instead.
>> What do you think the
extra food is doing for you?
Because your body doesn't
need it as far as hunger goes.
So what are you
trying to do with it?
What do you think food is
providing for you that you're
not getting in your life?
Sometimes I'll say to
people, what's missing?
What's missing that you would
now be 50 pounds overweight
and using food chronically,
all day long, for 30 years?
What's going on?
And often they'll
say, loneliness.
Often they'll say there's
an emptiness inside.
Sometimes they'll say, my
whole family is this way.
I learned how to
use food as a way
to entertain myself,
be less bored,
be excited, have fun, be
engaged, be disengaged.
You know, it's so often.
You can't be enraged
when you're eating a pie.
You can't do both
at the same time.
You can't be deep
into grief when you're
eating a carton of ice cream.
>> Even though I want the second
piece of cheesecake right now,
or I want to go eat all of
the carrot cake right now,
I deeply love and accept
and forgive myself.
And going through
the whole tapping
mechanism to bring myself
to a state of peace.
>> I think that I can just
keep on tapping and keep
implementing this in my life
and spend time every day for me
and not try to please
everybody else all the time.
I saw some movement.
I saw it get worse.
I saw it get better
a little bit.
And I think I'm leaving a little
better, a little less pain.
Probably one of
the biggest things
that I learned this
four days was by tapping
and by going through
this exercise
was trying to figure out who
I really am deep down inside,
not just who people think
I am or what is in my mind
and make decisions from
my heart and my intuition,
rather than from my head.
>> Keep tapping.
It works.
It's the tapping that works.
A lot of times
people worry about,
am I saying the right thing?
Or am I focused on
the right thing?
If you're focused on something
that's bothering you,
and you're tapping on
it, it's going to work.
>> I think the emotional
part of my smoking,
I believe that's gone.
But the addiction to the
nicotine is still there.
But I think with cutting
down now and controlling
the emotional part of it
is going to help me quit.
>> The cravings went down, so he
knew immediately it would work
on the craving.
The issue for him was, what
was he going to do instead?
>> It's not just about the
craving because we can crave
anything.
We don't have to act out on it.
It's all the things that
are causing the craving.
Addiction is-- the
reason why people
use a substance, alcohol,
drugs, or whatever,
is because it works.
If it didn't work, they
wouldn't be using it.
>> Not only have I been just
stuck with these addictions,
I also have been living
with just this horrible fear
and so many scars that have just
caused me to act out so much
ever since I was raped
when I was younger.
I hurt my family
and hurt myself.
And I've had nightmares honestly
every single night to the point
where my husband doesn't
sleep in the same bed as me
anymore because I scare him.
Because I shake at
night, or I start crying,
or I scream in my dreams.
This weekend is the first
three days, three nights
that I haven't had nightmares.
>> Everybody.
I think this was a life-changing
experience for everybody
that attended here and maybe
for the people that watched.
>> I think we're all looking
for something to help us feel
better, but in a real way.
This isn't just taking a pill.
This is something we're engaged,
we're involved in this process.
>> When you're talking about
people with post-traumatic
stress syndrome and just
really intense things or years
of addictions, and they've tried
everything to get rid of it,
and they do this process, and
in a couple of days or whatever
they have a dramatic shift.
I mean, there's
something going on there.
>> I consider it
the people's method.
It's there for all of us.
And literally, at
our fingertips.
>> I just wish I'd
learned this 30 years ago,
20 or 39 years ago.
But I'm just thankful
I have learned it now.
>> It's wonderful for nightmares
and anxiety that kids have
going to school.
>> Kids are making up their
mind, we've got to change ours.
It's a lot easier
to make up your mind
than it is to change it.
>> So to be able to have the
resources where kids are able
to clear out those kind
of traumas that day,
right within a few hours.
So it doesn't even affect
the rest of their day,
much less the rest
of their life.
>> I certainly hope that it
will be used in schools with
children.
I think that that's
a really wonderful--
there's such a wonderful
opportunity there.
>> And what that person is going
to go on and achieve in life
because they're going to
share their gifts and talents.
Because they're not
feeling blocked by the fact
that they were laughed at from
some simple little event that
happens all the time.
>> Because that's where
things start, right?
Something happens in
school and it upsets them,
and they decide that the
older kids are always bad
because of one thing that
happened with a bully
in eighth grade.
And if we could just
collapse those conflicts
and those events at
the end of every day
or the end of every
week, those children
would grow up with more
confidence, less insecurity,
less vulnerability to
being hurt by other people.
>> I believe that every person
is born as a cell in this human
body, and if we all
achieve our full potential,
I might be a liver cell
and you're a kidney cell
and someone's an eyeball cell
and someone else is a lung
cell.
And if all the cells are doing
what they're supposed to do,
then the whole world works.
The problem is when we
try to be what we're not
or try to deny what we really
truly feel and want to do,
that then we get like cancer
cells in the body that are not
aligned with what the rest of
the purpose of the body is.
>> Our beliefs of competition
and warfare and struggle
and survival completely
missed the point.
It's really based on loving,
harmony, thriving, community,
cooperation.
These are the words of life.
>> If I'm going around
and I'm at peace,
I'm naturally going to
be nicer to other people.
If I'm being nicer
to other people,
then hopefully they're
going to pick up on that,
and they'll be nice
to other people.
And suddenly, you've
got this chain reaction.
>> It could transform the entire
culture because they'll have
the tool, they'll be using it,
and then you'll be preventing
future illness.
It's the ultimate prevention.
>> It's spreading so fast.
I think this will
be standard, kind
of like you know if you get the
hiccups and someone goes, boo,
because you know if you scare
yourself, your hiccups go away.
I think it's going to be as
common knowledge as that.
>> I think there's a spiritual
transition taking place
in the world.
People are starting
to understand spirit.
to understand energy.
People are starting
to understand
them self as an energy field.
And the fact that they can work
with it to get the results they
want.
There are critics, and
there's quite a few,
but they're changing very fast.
>> If you don't know about these
processes, these mechanisms,
were ignorant of these facts,
and then things happen to us,
of course, we don't
know what's going on.
And what can I do about it?
Nobody told me.
But once you know,
then you can't
go back and do that anymore.
You can say, OK, history,
everything that happened to me
up to this point,
I was oblivious to,
I was ignorant of.
I don't know.
But from this point forward,
I'm going to take control.
Now I own my life.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> How are you?
>> And here's a man, right here.
>> You did such an awesome job.
>> How about you, buddy?
>> Absolutely.
>> Oh, are you kidding?
>> Jackie and I met at the
airport to fly in last night,
and she said to me, are you
wearing a brace or a support
thing?
And I thought in my
mind, why would I?
Really, I did.
I was kind of like,
why would she ask that?
>> Wow.
>> But I guess she didn't
realize that literally since
that weekend-- and I
don't know which day.
It was interesting hearing you
all say like, on the second day
and on the first,
because in a way,
that whole weekend was
a blur, but a good blur.
Not a, you know?
So I don't know exactly
when it happened,
but I just have never
had that back pain since.
So before when I would travel
and fly, I would always
have to wear some sort of a
brace or have all my patches,
medicines, you name it,
you name it what you want.
And I don't have any
of that for this.
I think I have one little thing.
But yeah, I don't wear
any sort of those things.
And Jackie was like, you
want me to take your bag?
And I was like, no, I'm fine.
[LAUGHTER]
I'm OK, I am.
>> It's changed my whole life.
>> Yeah, definitely.
And I see it in the
rest of us, too.
I can work without hurting.
That's one thing, I can
do it without hurting.
I could never sit on the floor.
I could sit on the floor.
It was difficult
to get down there,
but I could never get back up.
It would be very, very
difficult to get back up.
But the last day, I come in,
and all the chairs were taken,
and the only place to
sit was on the floor.
I was, well, let's try this.
I was on that floor
until late that night.
>> I kept waiting, thinking,
huh, the knee pain went away.
It's coming back.
>> Yeah.
>> It's coming back.
Well, guess what?
Never a twinge, nothing.
Nothing came back.
So that was an
absolute proof to me.
And then I went for
walks and stuff, too.
But no pain whatsoever.
>> It's hard to put into
words how the feeling is after
so many years of being in so
much pain and then not having
it anymore.
>> That whole weekend, nothing.
And it's been six months.
It's not coming back.
It's gone.
It's completely gone.
I don't expect that
to ever return.
>> For so long I kind of felt
like I was on the outside
looking in.
And now I feel like I belong.
And it's just a shift
in consciousness,
but it's a huge one for
me because it's just
a different feeling.
I feel like I
belong here, whereas
before, like in other
settings, I would just
feel like an outsider, like--
>> Sometimes I find it
not hard, but challenging,
when you're in the cancer center
getting back in treatments
again, and I'm there almost
every day for this first month
of my clinical trial I'm on.
And you're just surrounded with
not sick people, but basically
chronically ill people.
And you can't help but go
there and sometimes just
having that tool that you
can sit there in your chair,
quietly tapping away,
and just working
through whether the emotion's
fear or anxiety or unknown.
You know, you're not sure
what's happening in the future.
>> I don't have
a sweets craving.
I don't eat cake and
pies like I used to.
And I didn't even realize--
and I shared this also--
I hadn't even realized that
I go into Dunkin' Donuts
almost every day, and
I never buy a donut.
And I said, you know,
I have to really assess
what's going on here.
Because II keep saying, well,
I'm not tapping regularly,
I'm not tapping daily, and
I'm not getting the effects.
But I do tap irregularly,
and I do tap occasionally.
And I do tap and grab moments.
>> I went from a
38 to a 36 again.
So I'm looking to
get back to 34.
Actually, I was a-- yeah,
all right, I was a 40.
[LAUGHTER]
I was a 40.
I went from a 40 to a 36, so I'm
back to my original 36 in three
months.
The whole thing about
the whole weekend,
that I was able to
like say, conquer,
was not to play back that
horrific day all the time.
Because that was
driving me nuts.
And being able to
live with some pain--
because I live
with pain, you know
what I mean-- as I
speak to you now,
I still feel a little,
very little pain,
that I know that
Raquel's not with me.
But I know she is.
Somehow she is.
>> I just like--
one thing my daughter
said to my wife,
she says, who is this man?
I don't know him.
But she says, I like him
and I want to keep him.
That was a big thing
for me, you know?
So there was a lot of things
during that four days.
[MUSIC PLAYING]